Social Engineering and Client-Side Attacks
As most client-side attacks require
some form of interaction with the target,
such as requiring the target to click on
a link, open an email, run an attachment,
or open a document, we should
preemptively leverage social engineering
tactics to improve our
chances of success.
Imagine the following scenario.
We are on an engagement, trying
to execute a client-side attack
against the Human Resources department.
We could just blindly jump in and attack,
but our chances of success are slim
since we have no idea which operating
system and applications they are using,
nor which versions.
Instead, we will favor caution
and respond to a job posting
with a malformed “resume” document
that is designed to not open.
The next day, we receive an
email response indicating that,
not surprisingly, HR can
not open our document.
In an attempt to help resolve
the issue, we respond,
asking what exact version of
Microsoft Office they are using,
suggesting that the issue may be
caused by a version incompatibility.
In our scenario, we discover that
the HR representative is
unsurprisingly using a specific
version of Microsoft Office
and that they are allowed
to execute Word macros.
Armed with this information, we can
craft a second resume Word document
containing a macro leveraging PowerShell
to open a reverse shell
and email it to them.
Of course, this is a
simplified success story.
Your social engineering pretexts will
most certainly have to be more intricate
and specific, based on information
you have gathered in advance.